---
layout: default
---


[Main Page](https://knoll-alex.github.io/)

## Google Season of Docs
_September - December 2019_
Read more about the GSoD initiative and my experience **here.**

### Organization
[INCF:](https://www.incf.org/) International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility

### Project Title
Simplifying LORIS how-to guides, tutorials, and workflow documentation

#### What is LORIS?

[LORIS](http://loris.ca/) (Longitudinal Online Research and Imaging System) is an open neuroscience research data platform used by multi-site, longitudinal neuroscience studies around the world. Its [web-facing front-end](http://demo.loris.ca/) provides researchers with powerful customizable tools to handle, curate, visualize and export any format of data within a single platform.

### Project Overview

My technical writing specialty lies in turning complex ideas into accessible plain language. With LORIS being a robust software used in the orderly world of scientific research, this was a fun challenge! My ultimate goal was to make LORIS documentation that was appealing, but of course helpful to its users.

### Deliverables

During GSoD, my contributions to LORIS include:

* Total rewrite of all user-facing help text in LORIS
* Created a comprehensive user guide for navigating LORIS
* Created an internal onboarding document for new LORIS members
* Created a Github Desktop guide (for beginners) 
* Created Style Guides for future reference
* Updated html presentations about LORIS (done in Reveal.js)

##### 1. Help Text Rewrite

In LORIS, every module and some additional pages have their own help content displayed as a beacon on the page. Users click a question mark to reveal Help text, which includes an overview and context of the page, along with instructions on how to use the features of that page.

There were around 40 pieces of help text to work on. Some of these were new modules, so I created the text from scratch. For the most part, however, I rewrote existing help text to make it more accessible and user-friendly.

This work is stored in [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/aces/Loris/issues/5576) - see all associated PRs.

##### 2. LORIS User Guide

I created a comprehensive 40+ page document that describes a suggested workflow for using LORIS, along with detailed explanations on its every feature and function and associated screenshots. This can be helpful to users that need more context to supplement the in-site help text. In addition, it will be sent to potential research leads that want to learn more about LORIS' capabilities and interface.

[Take a look](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10zhryhdG0NX1ov65AypfxgcGXTp_FwDaPI1i6tkqkDg/edit?usp=sharing)

##### 3. Internal Onboarding Document

Joining the LORIS team was a bit overwhelming due to the volume of information I needed to learn so quickly! They had many resources for learning the platform, but they were all scattered in different places. So, I decided to compile helpful pieces into one document for new LORIS members, called The LORIS Brief. 

[Take a look](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MUDxILP5uU95wsycSWtLqTE4c5pI2oxXbE5Aoshgs-w/edit?usp=sharing)

##### 4. Github Desktop 101

Upon joining the LORIS project, my Github exposure was limited. I had used github.com to upload files... but that was pretty much it. Actually, my biggest challenge during this experience was learning how to use Github desktop (I couldn't use github.com due to the complex branching system used by the LORIS repo). With help from my mentors, along with endless forum-foraging, I put together a step-by-step guide on using Github Desktop with LORIS. 

[Take a look](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jYvOCl-0fnQ1tjhTsJFT9R3MXE4d0GjmIuPtT3A7wfk/edit?usp=sharing)

##### 5. Updated HTML Presentations on LORIS

The LORIS team hosts a suite of informative presentations built in Reveal.js. These were designed to be presented in-person, but the team wanted them to live online for anyone to access and learn from. I contextualized, re-organized, and re-formatted the content to be more user-friendly for this purpose.

You can find these presentations [here](http://samirdas.github.io/#/)

##### 6. Style Guides

I created a couple style guides for the team's future reference based on the documentation changes I made. One was a detailed guide for creating and updating the user-facing help text in LORIS. This guide includes guidelines on grammar and tone, markdown styles accepted in LORIS, and how to name/upload files into the LORIS repository. 

[Take a look](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bbEf9nMBzd-8W3qHs47jAu3JDgvUrL_45F7-Y7A-xPY/edit?usp=sharing)

I also created a simple style guide for the html presentations, which exists as a README.md file in the presentation repo.

[Take a look](https://github.com/samirdas/samirdas.github.io)

